---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Use Docs

Docs are located under `/docs` directory by default.

## Create a doc

Create a Markdown file, `greeting.md`, and place it under the `/docs` directory.

```bash
website # root directory of your site
├── docs
│   └── greeting.md
├── ...
```

## Front Matter

```md title="Front Matter Demo"
---
title: Name Of Doc
id: your-doc
slug: /your-doc
description: Create a Markdown Document
tags:
  - Demo
  - Getting started
sidebar_position: 10
---
```

### `title` for doc Title

- This field is **optional**, by default `h1` in document body will be used for the title.

- Use `title` in Front Matter will change the sitebar and webpage title. 

- If there is no `h1` in the document body, `title` will be used in the page.

### `id` for doc Identifier

- This field is **optional**, by default the filename of the doc is used as `id` for the document.

- `id` is also used in the url to the doc by default.

- `id` is unique when linking resources, such as use `docId` to link to the doc in navbar.

- Sometimes multiple docs can have the same filename under different directory, to use `docId` to link these 2 docs, different `id` should be set.

```bash title="e.g. same filename"
website # root directory of your site
├── docs
│   └── guide-for-something
│   │   └── `step-1.md`
│   └── guide-for-something-else
│       └── `step-1.md`
├── ...
```

### `slug` for doc Url

- This field is **optional**, by default docusaurus will use `directory/filename` or `directory/docId` as the url for the doc.

- You can override the default url by using `slug` field. Even create non-exsiting directorys:

```json title="e.g. slug for custom url"
// doc location
├── docs
│   └── demo
│   │   └── docname
├── ...

// Front Matter slug Override
slug: /this/is/a/cool/name
```

When Docs routeBasePath is `/docs`, that doc url will be `your.domain/docs/this/is/a/cool/name` other than the default `your.domain/docs/demo/docname`.

### `description` field

- This field is **optional**.

- Can be useful for SEO.

### `tags` field

- This field is **optional**.

:::note

Tags in `docs` and `blog` are not shared, they are in separated namespaces.

:::

### `sidebar_position` field

- This field is **optional**, but it's recommended to set mannually to keep the docs in order.

- `sidebar_position` set the orders of docs in the same directory level.

- This also apply in `Previous / Next`.

- For more Sidebar and Docs ordering, visit https://docusaurus.io/docs/sidebar/autogenerated#autogenerated-sidebar-metadata

## Docs routeBasePath

- This template uses `/` as docs **routeBasePath** by default.

- As this doc `/docs/quick-setup/use-docs.md` is using url: `your.domain/quick-setup/use-docs`.

### Change Docs routeBasePath

- Use `/docs` as Docs routeBasePath will move docs under `your.domain/docs/`.

- Then this doc's url will be changed to `your.domain/docs/quick-setup/use-docs`.

```diff title="docusaurus.config.js"
const config = {
  presets: [
    [
      'classic',
      /** @type {import('@docusaurus/preset-classic').Options} */
      ({
        docs: {
-          routeBasePath: '/',
+          routeBasePath: '/docs',
        },
      }),
    ],
  ],
};
```

:::note

This template uses `/docs/start.md` as homepage.

After changing routeBasePath from '/' to other location, the homepage will unable to access, You will need to [create a homepage](./use-pages.md) after changing the docs routeBasePath.

:::
